add blog on comparing hashicorp vault secrets retrieval from kubernetes (#69)
verifa/website: src/posts/comparing-methods-for-accessing-secrets-in-vault-from-kubernetes.md

The plugin works by templating placeholders in Kubernetes manifests with secrets read from secrets managers (like [HashiCorp Vault](https://argocd-vault-plugin.readthedocs.io/en/stable/backends/#hashicorp-vault), yet [others are supported](https://argocd-vault-plugin.readthedocs.io/en/stable/backends/) also). Obviously you do not want to put your sensitive values straight into your Kubernetes objects that are not made for storing sensitive values, so likely you sensitive values are templated into Kubernetes secrets. However, this does mean if you store non-sensitive values in Vault (e.g. cloud resource IDs, or other configurations), then you **could template those** directly into your Kubernetes manifests. This is a fairly opinionated topic, so let’s say that "it depends" whether that’s a good thing or not. But it’s an interesting side effect that solves many common problems with passing values from infrastructure tools like Terraform to your Kubernetes manifests.

![k8s-argocd-vault-plugin](/blogs/comparing-methods-for-accessing-secrets-in-vault-from-kubernetes/k8s-argocd-vault-plugin.png)

#### Effort

> **Platform Effort**: (Assuming you already have ArgoCD) This requires [installing the plugin](https://argocd-vault-plugin.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installation/) for which the [traditional approach is deprecated](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/config-management-plugins/#configmap-plugin) and the newer [sidecar-based approach](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/config-management-plugins/#sidecar-plugin) is recommended, and much more maintainable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Platform Effort**: (Assuming you already have ArgoCD) This requires [installing the plugin](https://argocd-vault-plugin.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installation/), for which the [traditional approach is deprecated](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/config-management-plugins/#configmap-plugin), and the newer [sidecar-based approach](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/config-management-plugins/#sidecar-plugin) is recommended and much more maintainable.
```

> **Deployment Effort**: Writing the manifests can be a bit clumsy to get right but the ArgoCD UI makes it quite clear when something did not work, which helps a lot. And because you are templating raw Kubernetes manifests, it is also very easy to check that everything went as intended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Deployment Effort**: Writing the manifests can be a bit clumsy to get right but the ArgoCD UI makes it quite clear when something did not work, which helps a lot. Additionally, because you are templating raw Kubernetes manifests, it is also very easy to check that everything went as intended.
```

**Application Effort**: The application can read from environment variables or files.

|  | Platform Effort | Deployment Effort | Application Effort |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ArgoCD Vault Plugin | ■■■□□ | ■■□□□ | ■□□□□ |

#### Support

> The ArgoCD Vault Plugins support is very similar to that of the External Secrets Operator. So many of the same points/questions apply.

Reviewer: While it is technically correct here, "so many" Is commonly used to mean "very many" and thus is ambiguous here.
```suggestion
The ArgoCD Vault Plugins support is very similar to that of the External Secrets Operator. Therefore many of the same points/questions apply.
```

|  | Secrets Engines | Auth Methods | Sync to K8s Secrets | Secret Rotation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ArgoCD Vault Plugin | KV only | AppRole, Token, Github, Kubernetes and Userpass | Optional | Manual |

## Wrapping up

> When considering the effort involved in the different approaches, it is important to consider your context. Are you a small, highly connected team, or are you a big enterprise with dedicated platform teams? In the former case, perhaps it doesn’t matter so much where the effort is placed. But in the latter case, it should be a goal to pay the effort on the platform team as much as possible to enable stream-aligned teams to securely access their secrets with minimal effort. After all, there will be many more stream-aligned teams than platform teams so the approach should be favourably scalable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When considering the effort involved in the different approaches, it is important to consider your context. Are you a small, highly connected team, or are you a big enterprise with dedicated platform teams? In the former case, perhaps it doesn’t matter so much where the effort is placed. In the latter case, it should be a goal to pay the effort by the platform team as much as possible to enable stream-aligned teams to securely access their secrets with minimal effort. After all, there will be many more stream-aligned teams than platform teams so the approach should scale favourably.
```

|  | Platform Effort | Deployment Effort | Application Effort |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Vault REST API | ■□□□□ | ■■□□□ | ■■■■■ |
| Vault Sidecar Injector | ■■□□□ | ■■■■■ | ■■□□□ |
| Vault CSI Driver | ■■■□□ | ■■■■□ | ■□□□□ |
| External Secrets Operator | ■■□□□ | ■■■□□ | ■□□□□ |
| ArgoCD Vault Plugin | ■■■□□ | ■■□□□ | ■□□□□ |

> When considering the features of the various approaches, a few things we encountered that helped guide the decision:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When considering the features of the various approaches, we encountered a few things that helped guide our decisions:
```

> 1. **Third party tools**. If you manage a lot of 3rd party tools on Kubernetes, you might find it quite painful to try and use an approach that does not support synchronising with Kubernetes secrets. This is because not all tools support sane approaches for reading secrets, or if you rely on Helm, the Helm chart might not work as you intend or differ greatly from tool to tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Third party tools**. If you manage a lot of 3rd party tools on Kubernetes, you might find it quite painful to try and use an approach that does not support synchronising with Kubernetes secrets. This is because not all tools support sane approaches for reading secrets. If you rely on Helm, the Helm chart might not work as you intend or differ greatly from tool to tool.
```

> 2. **Scalability**. If you work with multi-cluster setups, each cluster will need access to Vault. This can become a configuration pain if using the [Kubernetes Auth Method](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/auth/kubernetes) with Vault, as each cluster needs its own auth engine. Sure, you can automatically add each cluster as an auth method when you create it (e.g. with Terraform), but the real pain is when using the auth method in your Kubernetes manifests as you need to provide the unique name of auth method. Suddenly your workloads need to be cluster-aware (or your deployment tool can handle that, which actually can be done using [ArgoCD ApplicationSets](https://argocd-applicationset.readthedocs.io/en/stable/Template/), for example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Scalability**. If you work with multi-cluster setups, each cluster will need access to Vault. This can become a configuration pain if using the [Kubernetes Auth Method](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/auth/kubernetes) with Vault, as each cluster needs its own auth engine. Sure, you can automatically add each cluster as an auth method when you create it (e.g. with Terraform), but the real pain is when using the auth method in your Kubernetes manifests as you need to provide the unique name of the auth method. Suddenly your workloads need to be cluster-aware (or your deployment tool can handle that, which actually can be done using [ArgoCD ApplicationSets](https://argocd-applicationset.readthedocs.io/en/stable/Template/), for example).
```

3. **Secrets rotation**. If you use dynamic secrets and there is a chance your workload could fail to authenticate once the secret expires then secrets rotation should be considered.

> 4. **Multi-cloud with cross-cloud access**. Dynamic secrets should be high on the agenda so that, for example, a pod in one cloud can get dynamic credentials for an IAM account in another cloud and access some cloud resources securely. Immediately we filter out the approaches that only support key-value secrets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Multi-cloud with cross-cloud access**. Dynamic secrets should be high on the agenda so that, for example, a pod in one cloud can get dynamic credentials for an IAM account in another cloud and access some cloud resources securely. This immediately filters out the approaches that only support key-value secrets.
```

Here’s a summary of the different approaches and their support.

|  | Secrets Engines | Auth Methods | Sync to K8s Secrets | Secret Rotation |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| REST API | All | Any | No | No, not built-in |
| Sidecar Injector | All | All | No | Yes |
| Vault CSI Driver | All | Kubernetes only | Optional | Yes, if using files |
| External Secrets Operator | KV only | Token, AppRole, Kubernetes, LDAP, JWT/OIDC | Yes | Yes, if mounted as file |
| ArgoCD Vault Plugin | KV only | AppRole, Token, Github, Kubernetes and Userpass | Optional | Manual |

In our experience, centrally managing secrets and providing an *efficient yet secure* way to access them, is something that requires some initial setup and consideration.

> Secrets management is not easy,yet it is not particularly hard, but it is work that needs to be done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secrets management is neither particularly easy not particularly difficult, but it is work that needs to be done.
```

We think this is an area where a Platform Team can have a significant role in helping to secure our clouds and our workloads.

> Anyway, these are our findings and our results. You might disagree with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are our findings and our conclusions.
```

> If you do, why not reach out to us and let us know why.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you disagree with them, why not reach out to us and let us know why. Or if you found something particularly insightful, leave us a comment!
```

> And if you’d like any help with HashiCorp Vault and Kubernetes please [get in touch](https://verifa.io/contact/index.html)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, if you’d like any help with HashiCorp Vault and Kubernetes please [get in touch](https://verifa.io/contact/index.html)!
```

**Platform Effort**: The Vault Sidecar Controller must be installed on each cluster that wants to use this method.

**Deployment Effort**: Writing annotations on the pod will be the bulk of the work with this approach, and the annotations can be a little bit clumsy (especially as [there are so many](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/platform/k8s/injector/annotations)) and can take a few tries to get it right.

**Application Effort**: The application only needs to support reading secrets from files, which is a pretty standard approach.

|  | Platform Effort | Deployment Effort | Application Effort |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Vault Sidecar Injector | ■■□□□ | ■■■■■ | ■■□□□ |

#### Vault Sidecar Injector: Support

The Agent Sidecar Injector uses the [Vault Agent](https://www.notion.so/Comparing-methods-for-accessing-secrets-in-HashiCorp-Vault-from-Kubernetes-f05ff78d48604a9392c5643fb86bed62) under the hood which seems to support all secrets engines and all auth methods. It’s not very clear exactly what is and is not supported but the Vault Agent is quite general purpose so you would assume the support for multiple secret engines and auth methods is high.

> The Sidecar Injector cannot synchronise to Kubernetes secrets. This can make it quite tricky to integrate with 3rd party tools that do not make it easy to read from files, or 3rd party tools where the only choice you have is to provide a command line argument or an environment variable. People come up with all kinds of [happy hacks](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-k8s/issues/14#issuecomment-1073361921) to work around this, but yeah, probably you should look at another approach if that’s your issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sidecar Injector cannot synchronise to Kubernetes secrets. This can make it quite tricky to integrate with 3rd party tools that do not provide an easy method to read from files, or 3rd party tools where the only option you have is to provide either a command line argument or an environment variable. The community has invented several [happy hacks](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-k8s/issues/14#issuecomment-1073361921) to work around this, but you should probably look for another approach if that’s an issue for you.
```
